---
title: Risk Appetite
description: a crazy rant on risk appetite and boys and trading
---

I was chatting with my friends about my ideal type 💅 today and I realised that the vibe of a person being from a rich family doesnt really appeal to me as a partner, and i was wondering why. I summarised 2 reasons: my original reason was that they are probably where I am in life now, so if they were poor, the first derivative of their career against time graph would higher, so they would be more successful in the future. But I wasnt really convinced by myself… 
My friend A mentioned that people from poorer backgrounds have higher risk tolerance/appetite - more entreprenuers were not from a well-to-do background, because they have nothing to lose. If one were rich, they wouldn’t make such risky decisions.
Later that day, I jaywalked, and that reminded me of the phrase risk appetite again. I realised that I perceive jaywalking as something much more reasonable than most people (calculated jaywalking, of course, please dont harm yourself trying to jaywalk) together with running into the mrt as the doors are closing or running for the bus from across the street. I thought back to my optiver interview (which is happening tmr btw) and a question i found online: what is the riskist decision you have ever made. I think that optiver wants traders with slightly bigger risk appetites 
Back to the boys 💅 talk, I dont know whether I’ve watched too many rom-coms or what, but the “bad boy” persona is sexy. This is usually perceived as irrational and going for this persona is advised against. For a long time, I did not know how to rationalise this too! But today is the day that I will finally explain this to myself. I think its really about have a big risk appetite. 
The willingness to break conventions, push boundaries, and take calculated risks that others might avoid, the calmness to thrive under pressure and the confidence to make decisions where others hesitate is really inspiring! (look at how i use 排比 in my essays, very demure, very mindful)  The calmness under pressure really makes me feel really safe too!
In trading, having a high risk appetite means being willing to take on more risk in pursuit of potentially higher rewards. Traders with a large risk appetite are often comfortable with volatility and uncertainty, which can be essential in highly dynamic markets where timing and quick decision-making are crucial. This trait is particularly important in high-stakes environments, like proprietary trading firms, where the goal is often to maximize profit by taking advantage of short-term market inefficiencies.  Unconventional thinking and swift action can yield significant advantages. 
Of course, not everyone can take risks and be sexy, just like not every trader can earn money. One needs to tread carefully the fine line between risk appetite and recklessness. Experienced traders need to not only have a strong tolerance for risk but also a deep understanding of the market, data, and potential outcomes, allowing them to take risks strategically.
So to summarise the second (and better) reason (of why the vibe of a person being from a rich family doesnt really appeal to me as a partner), it would be that their risk appetite are usually lower!! You may say, elaina, its weird that this matters to you at all! But i think that it really materialises in every single decision that we make, and every thought that we think, and arent we, after all, the sum of our decisions? 
so in conclusion, my taste in men is the same as quant firms <3

# References
[Risk appetite and hedging strategies: the impact of age cohorts in financial markets](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/epdf/10.1080/23322039.2024.2382354?needAccess=true)

One of the standard assumptions of Modern Portfolio Theory as understood by wealth managers is that risk tolerance and levels of wealth are unrelated. Yet at the deepest level of classical utility theory, a maintained assumption is that as wealth increases, aversion to risk increases. - [Does Wealth Change the Way You Think](https://www.chubb.com/content/dam/chubb-sites/chubb-com/us-en/individuals-families/agent-marketing/wharton/pdfs/chubb_hnwi_longreport.pdf) (Page 15)
